[Applause]
you know we all have that one friend or
co-worker whose computer skills make us
feel like a Neanderthal they barely
touch the mouse their screen lights up
with all kinds of tasks and boxes and
their fingers go lightning-fast on that
keyboard they even have time to casually
chat with Siri or cart Anna and stream
games afterwards but this is no sorcery
your friend is simply a whiz when it
comes to hotkeys and you can be too
let's start with a skill every computer
maestro needs to know number one create
a virtual desktop imagine you're in the
middle of some work project or research
you've been doing all day
when you need to deal with another task
immediately opening new tabs and windows
will just slow you down and mess up your
workflow so you need a new clean desktop
well just press the Windows key + ctrl +
D or ctrl + up if you use a Mac it'll
switch to a new fresh desktop and you
are ready to go number two switch
between virtual desktops okay but where
is all that precious work you were doing
before is it gone forever don't panic
it's just hiding to get it back push the
Windows key + ctrl or the ctrl key on a
Mac now you can switch between all the
virtual desktops you've made by using
the left and right arrow keys when
you're done with the second task and
sure you no longer need that desktop you
can close it by pressing the windows key
+ ctrl + f4 on a Mac hold down the
option key and click on the X signs that
appear over any open desktop spaces to
close them
[Music]
number three returned to the desktop
from apps if you have too many apps open
and you need to use another one hidden
behind all those windows on your desktop
you don't need to minimize them all one
by one you can minimize all of them at
once by pushing the Windows key + M you
can also take a peek at your desktop
with the Windows key + comma or command
+ f3 for OS this is a handy little trick
if you work with information from
desktop widgets or if you really need to
take a break for a second and look at
the fluffy kittens or fields of calming
green grass you use at your desktop
wallpaper number 4 open an app from the
task bar if you want much faster access
to your most used apps consider keeping
them on your taskbar it'll speed up your
workflow even more if you use the
following combination the Windows key
plus a number key from one deny each
number represents an app in your taskbar
from the left to right and this combo
will bring up the necessary one
unfortunately there's no similar hotkey
for OS but I'm pretty sure Mac users are
quite content with a Mac's awesome app
navigation
number five split-screen between two
apps want to see a magic trick try this
open one app that you need for your work
and press the Windows key + left arrow
then open another app and click the
Windows key + right arrow now two
windows are sharing your screen checking
facts in your academic work while
looking directly at your sources no
problem
photoshopping while watching bright side
videos haha easy peasy
number six switch apps there are several
ways to effectively shift from one app
to another and to manage them on your
desktop using hotkeys pressing ctrl +
Alt + tab will show you all the apps
currently running on your PC again Mac
is known for rocking the app navigation
game so it's a bit easier on OS it's
just ctrl + tab another way to open the
task view press the Windows key + tab
this is the PC equivalent to the Mac's
Mission Control it provides a broader
view of open windows and available
desktops and it's much more convenient
to use and finally there's the hotkey
Alt + tab or command + tab on a Mac that
will allow you to swap programs without
previously displaying them like a deck
of cards if you work with just a couple
of windows at once this one's for you
[Music]
number 7 program management and
troubleshooting let's go shoot us some
trouble now listen carefully because
you'll want to remember this one
everyone's been there one program is
stuck and won't process anything even if
you cry big or try to bribe it to do so
to avoid restarting your device and
losing all your progress try using the
following combo ctrl + Shift + escape or
command + option + escape if you're
working on a Mac it'll open the task man
which will help you force quit any
malfunctioning app or stop the ones that
aren't responding losing some data from
one faulty program is not the same as
losing all your data from all of them
[Music]
number eight Open File Explorer not all
your apps need to be on hand all the
time for you to work faster some of them
are standard programs built into your
computer and there's a quick and
convenient way to access them pressing
the Windows key + e opens the file
manager window on your PC for Mac users
this is your finder app 9 use the
magnifier ever dreamed of becoming one
of those TV detectives that can find
anything on any picture no matter how
tiny the image is enhance the image
I need 10x zoom yeah you can totally do
that on your computer the windows King
combined with a plus or minus key will
open the magnifier app which allows you
to zoom in and out wherever you point
your cursor the same goes for Mac OS but
you need to use the combination of all
command + + to zoom just don't expect to
be catching any criminals from the tiny
inverted reflection bouncing off an
earring or something
[Applause]
number 10 take screenshots oh you found
that tiny evidence well you better
collect it use the Windows key plus
print screen to take a screenshot and
immediately save it in the image folder
on your hard drive Mac also lets you
take screenshots by pressing command +
Shift + 3 but for you it gets even
cooler if you push four instead of three
you'll be able to choose what part of
your desktop you want to snap a picture
of or even take a screenshot of only one
exact window
number eleven use action center set up
bluetooth connect with devices in your
network use your PC is a Wi-Fi hotspot
turn notifications on and off those and
many other functions and newer versions
of Windows are available in one place
called Action Center to open it
simultaneously press the window key plus
a for Mac users your Notification Center
is always a click away in the top right
hand corner 12:00 access the settings if
you need more tweaking or access to more
advanced parameters of your PC you can
have it all use the Windows key + I to
do just that
[Music]
13 talk to Cortana or Siri task managers
thorough researchers life organizers
interesting conversation partners
nowadays computers come with a personal
assistant literally built-in Siri and
Cortana can do it all and you can call
them up with just one touch to open
Cortana on Windows in listening mode
press the Windows key + C and the summon
Siri on Mac OS hold command + space
together
hey Siri 14 use the Windows game bar so
you've been working hard all day
bringing up these desktops and whatnot
you come home and it's time to relax to
a nice gaming session and here it comes
that exciting moment when you finally
beat that insane boss fight or you and
your friends had a hilarious exchange or
epic battle in the online game you're
playing together ah if only you could
capture that moment forever well
actually you have everything you need
right in the game bar feature on your PC
you can bring it up at any time by
pressing the Windows key + G to set up
recording manually but that's not all
game bar itself has a hotkey for
starting and stopping recording just
press windows + Alt + R you can even
start streaming by pushing the windows
key + Alt + B Mac OS also has its own
feature for capturing videos and it's
really simple to use press shift +
command + v to record the screen using
QuickTime Player
[Music]
fifteen lock down your PC let's say you
share a computer with your family or
coworkers and you've spent all day
looking for the perfect gift for your
mom or slacking off at work and you
don't want anyone to know about it if
you suddenly need to step away from the
computer but you don't want anyone
meddling in your stuff you can quickly
lock your user profile simply push the
Windows key + L or Shift + command + Q
on a Mac just make sure you set up your
password first and don't forget it
pretty cool huh hey which hotkeys make
your time on the computer smoother and
faster let everybody know down in the
comments be sure to give this video a
like share it with your friends and
click subscribe to always stay on the
bright side of life
you